FormalTopology/HeytingImplication.lagda.md, before:

---
title: Heyting Implication in a Frame
author: Ayberk Tosun (j.w.w. Martín Escardó)
---

<!--
```agda
{-# OPTIONS --cubical --safe #-}

open import Basis
open import Poset
open import Frame
open import Spectral

module HeytingImplication where
```
-->

## Basis

Given a (𝓤, 𝓥, 𝓦)-frame F, we say that some 𝓦-family on ∣ F ∣ forms a basis for
it iff for every x : ∣ F ∣, there exists a family U of basic elements such that
⋁ U is the join of x.

```agda
formsBasis : (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓦) → Fam 𝓦 ∣ F ∣F → (𝓤 ∨ 𝓥 ∨ 𝓦 ⁺) ̇
formsBasis {𝓥 = 𝓥} {𝓦} F B =
  ((x : ∣ F ∣F) →
     Σ[ U ∈ Fam 𝓦 (index B) ]
       [ isSup (pos F) ⁅ B $ u ∣ u ε U ⁆ x ])

hasBasis : (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓦) → (𝓤 ∨ 𝓥 ∨ 𝓦 ⁺) ̇
hasBasis {𝓦 = 𝓦} F = Σ[ B ∈ Fam 𝓦 ∣ F ∣F ] formsBasis F B
```

## Definition of Heyting implication

```agda
module DefnOfHeytingImplication (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓦) where
```

We say that some z is the Heyting implication for (x, y) iff for every w, w ≤ z
iff (w ∧ x) ≤ y.

```agda
  _isHeytingImplicationFor_ : ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F × ∣ F ∣F → hProp (𝓤 ∨ 𝓥)
  z isHeytingImplicationFor (x , y) =
    ∀[ w ∶ ∣ F ∣F ] (w ⊑[ pos F ] z) ⇔ ((x ⊓[ F ] w) ⊑[ pos F ] y)
```

Given a binary operation on the frame, we say that it is a Heyting implication
iff it gives the Heyting implication for any two opens.

```agda
  isHeytingImplication : (∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F) → hProp (𝓤 ∨ 𝓥)
  isHeytingImplication _⇒_ =
    ∀[ x ∶ ∣ F ∣F ] ∀[ y ∶ ∣ F ∣F ]
      ((x ⇒ y) isHeytingImplicationFor (x , y))
```

```agda
module HeytingImplicationProperties (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓦) where

  open DefnOfHeytingImplication F

  lemma₀ : {x y z u v w : ∣ F ∣F}
      → [ u isHeytingImplicationFor (x , (y ⊓[ F ] z)) ]
      → [ v isHeytingImplicationFor (x , y) ]
      → [ w isHeytingImplicationFor (x , z) ]
      → u ≡ v ⊓[ F ] w
  lemma₀ {x} {y} {z} {u} {v} {w} p q r = ⊓-unique F v w u β₀ β₁ γ
    where
    open PosetReasoning (pos F)

    δ₀ : [ (x ⊓[ F ] u) ⊑[ pos F ] y ]
    δ₀ = x ⊓[ F ] u ⊑⟨ π₀ (p u) (⊑[ pos F ]-refl u) ⟩
         y ⊓[ F ] z ⊑⟨ ⊓[ F ]-lower₀ y z            ⟩
         y          ■

    δ₁ : [ (x ⊓[ F ] u) ⊑[ pos F ] z ]
    δ₁ = x ⊓[ F ] u ⊑⟨ π₀ (p u) (⊑[ pos F ]-refl u) ⟩
         y ⊓[ F ] z ⊑⟨ ⊓[ F ]-lower₁ y z            ⟩
         z          ■

    β₀ : [ u ⊑[ pos F ] v ]
    β₀ = π₁ (q u) δ₀

    β₁ : [ u ⊑[ pos F ] w ]
    β₁ = π₁ (r u) δ₁

    γ : (t : ∣ F ∣F)
      → [ t ⊑[ pos F ] v ] → [ t ⊑[ pos F ] w ] → [ t ⊑[ pos F ] u ]
    γ t ϕ ψ = π₁ (p t) ((⊓[ F ]-greatest y z (x ⊓[ F ] t) ε) ζ)
      where
      ε : [ x ⊓[ F ] t ⊑[ pos F ] y ]
      ε = x ⊓[ F ] t     ⊑⟨ cright F x ϕ                 ⟩
          x ⊓[ F ] v     ⊑⟨ π₀ (q v) (⊑[ pos F ]-refl v) ⟩
          y              ■

      ζ : [ (x ⊓[ F ] t) ⊑[ pos F ] z ]
      ζ = x ⊓[ F ] t     ⊑⟨ cright F x ψ                 ⟩
          x ⊓[ F ] w     ⊑⟨ π₀ (r w) (⊑[ pos F ]-refl w) ⟩
          z              ■
```

## Construction of the Heyting implication

```agda
module Definition (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓥) (basis : hasBasis F) where
```

```agda
  open DefnOfHeytingImplication F

  _≤_ : ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F → hProp 𝓥
  x ≤ y = x ⊑[ pos F ] y

  infix 3 _≤_

  _∧_ : ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F
  x ∧ y = x ⊓[ F ] y

  ℬ : 𝓥 ̇
  ℬ = π₀ (π₀ basis)

  β : ℬ → ∣ F ∣F
  β = π₁ (π₀ basis)
```

We define the implication as follows:

```agda
  _==>_ : ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F
  x ==> y =
    ⋁[ F ] ⁅ β b ∣ (b , _) ∶ Σ[ b ∈ ℬ ] [ (x ∧ β b) ≤ y ] ⁆
```

Of course, the first thing we prove is modus ponens:

```agda
  mp : (x y : ∣ F ∣F) → [ x ⊓[ F ] (x ==> y) ⊑[ pos F ] y ]
  mp x y =
    x ⊓[ F ] (x ==> y)                    ⊑⟨ ≡⇒⊑ (pos F ) (dist F _ _) ⟩
    ⋁[ F ] ⁅ x ⊓[ F ] β b ∣ (b , _) ∶ _ ⁆ ⊑⟨ ⋁[ F ]-least _ _ γ        ⟩
    y                                     ■
    where
    open PosetReasoning (pos F)

    γ : _
    γ z ((_ , q) , eq) = subst (λ - → [ - ⊑[ pos F ] _ ]) eq q

  mp-op : (x y : ∣ F ∣F) → [ (x ==> y) ⊓[ F ] x ⊑[ pos F ] y ]
  mp-op x y = (x ==> y) ⊓[ F ] x ⊑⟨ ≡⇒⊑ (pos F) (comm F (x ==> y) x) ⟩
              x ⊓[ F ] (x ==> y) ⊑⟨ mp x y                           ⟩
              y                  ■
    where
    open PosetReasoning (pos F)
```

We now proceed to prove that this is the Heyting implication:

```agda
  lemma : (x y : ∣ F ∣F) (c : ℬ)
        → [ (x ∧ β c ≤ y) ⇒ (β c ≤ x ==> y) ]
  lemma x y c p = ⋁[ F ]-upper _ (β c) ((c , p) , refl)

  ==>-is-HI : [ isHeytingImplication _==>_ ]
  ==>-is-HI x y z = forward , backward
    where
    open PosetReasoning (pos F)

    forward : [ (z ≤ x ==> y) ⇒ (x ∧ z ≤ y) ]
    forward p = x ⊓[ F ] z         ⊑⟨ cright F _ p ⟩
                x ⊓[ F ] (x ==> y) ⊑⟨ mp x y       ⟩
                y                  ■

    backward : [ ((x ∧ z) ≤ y) ⇒ (z ≤ x ==> y) ]
    backward p = z                       ⊑⟨ ≡⇒⊑ (pos F) ε        ⟩
                 ⋁[ F ] ⁅ β v ∣ v ε VV ⁆ ⊑⟨ ⋁[ F ]-least _ _ nts ⟩
                 x ==> y                 ■
      where
      VV : Fam 𝓥 ℬ
      VV = π₀ (π₁ basis z)

      ε : z ≡ ⋁[ F ] ⁅ β v ∣ v ε VV ⁆
      ε = ⋁-unique F ⁅ β v ∣ v ε VV ⁆ _ (π₀ lub) (π₁ lub)
        where
        lub = π₁ (π₁ basis z)

      nts : _
      nts w (i , eq) = w          ⊑⟨ ≡⇒⊑ (pos F) (sym eq)                              ⟩
                       β (VV $ i) ⊑⟨ ⋁[ F ]-upper _ (β (VV $ i)) ((VV $ i , δ) , refl) ⟩
                       x ==> y    ■
        where
        δ : [ x ⊓[ F ] β (VV $ i) ≤ y ]
        δ = x ∧ β (VV $ i)                ⊑⟨ cright F _ (⋁[ F ]-upper _ _ (i , refl)) ⟩
            x ∧ (⋁[ F ] ⁅ β v ∣ v ε VV ⁆) ⊑⟨ cright F _ (≡⇒⊑ (pos F) (sym ε))         ⟩
            x ∧ z                         ⊑⟨ p                                         ⟩
            y                             ■
```

Commit message:

Complete the proof that the patch frame of a spectral frame is compact

FormalTopology/HeytingImplication.lagda.md, after:

---
title: Heyting Implication in a Frame
author: Ayberk Tosun (j.w.w. Martín Escardó)
---

<!--
```agda
{-# OPTIONS --cubical --safe #-}

open import Basis
open import Poset
open import Frame
open import Spectral

module HeytingImplication where
```
-->

## Basis

Given a (𝓤, 𝓥, 𝓦)-frame F, we say that some 𝓦-family on ∣ F ∣ forms a basis for
it iff for every x : ∣ F ∣, there exists a family U of basic elements such that
⋁ U is the join of x.

```agda
formsBasis : (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓦) → Fam 𝓦 ∣ F ∣F → (𝓤 ∨ 𝓥 ∨ 𝓦 ⁺) ̇
formsBasis {𝓥 = 𝓥} {𝓦} F B =
  ((x : ∣ F ∣F) →
     Σ[ U ∈ Fam 𝓦 (index B) ]
       [ isDirected (pos F) ⁅ B $ u ∣ u ε U ⁆ ⊓ isSup (pos F) ⁅ B $ u ∣ u ε U ⁆ x ])

-- F has a compact basis iff there is some 𝓦-family B s.t.
--
--   1. what I now have in `formsBasis`,
--   2. the compact elements form a meet-sublattice.

hasBasis : (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓦) → (𝓤 ∨ 𝓥 ∨ 𝓦 ⁺) ̇
hasBasis {𝓦 = 𝓦} F = Σ[ B ∈ Fam 𝓦 ∣ F ∣F ] formsBasis F B
```

## Definition of Heyting implication

```agda
module DefnOfHeytingImplication (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓦) where
```

We say that some z is the Heyting implication for (x, y) iff for every w, w ≤ z
iff (w ∧ x) ≤ y.

```agda
  _isHeytingImplicationFor_ : ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F × ∣ F ∣F → hProp (𝓤 ∨ 𝓥)
  z isHeytingImplicationFor (x , y) =
    ∀[ w ∶ ∣ F ∣F ] (w ⊑[ pos F ] z) ⇔ ((x ⊓[ F ] w) ⊑[ pos F ] y)
```

Given a binary operation on the frame, we say that it is a Heyting implication
iff it gives the Heyting implication for any two opens.

```agda
  isHeytingImplication : (∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F) → hProp (𝓤 ∨ 𝓥)
  isHeytingImplication _⇒_ =
    ∀[ x ∶ ∣ F ∣F ] ∀[ y ∶ ∣ F ∣F ]
      ((x ⇒ y) isHeytingImplicationFor (x , y))
```

```agda
module HeytingImplicationProperties (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓦) where

  open DefnOfHeytingImplication F

  lemma₀ : {x y z u v w : ∣ F ∣F}
      → [ u isHeytingImplicationFor (x , (y ⊓[ F ] z)) ]
      → [ v isHeytingImplicationFor (x , y) ]
      → [ w isHeytingImplicationFor (x , z) ]
      → u ≡ v ⊓[ F ] w
  lemma₀ {x} {y} {z} {u} {v} {w} p q r = ⊓-unique F v w u β₀ β₁ γ
    where
    open PosetReasoning (pos F)

    δ₀ : [ (x ⊓[ F ] u) ⊑[ pos F ] y ]
    δ₀ = x ⊓[ F ] u ⊑⟨ π₀ (p u) (⊑[ pos F ]-refl u) ⟩
         y ⊓[ F ] z ⊑⟨ ⊓[ F ]-lower₀ y z            ⟩
         y          ■

    δ₁ : [ (x ⊓[ F ] u) ⊑[ pos F ] z ]
    δ₁ = x ⊓[ F ] u ⊑⟨ π₀ (p u) (⊑[ pos F ]-refl u) ⟩
         y ⊓[ F ] z ⊑⟨ ⊓[ F ]-lower₁ y z            ⟩
         z          ■

    β₀ : [ u ⊑[ pos F ] v ]
    β₀ = π₁ (q u) δ₀

    β₁ : [ u ⊑[ pos F ] w ]
    β₁ = π₁ (r u) δ₁

    γ : (t : ∣ F ∣F)
      → [ t ⊑[ pos F ] v ] → [ t ⊑[ pos F ] w ] → [ t ⊑[ pos F ] u ]
    γ t ϕ ψ = π₁ (p t) ((⊓[ F ]-greatest y z (x ⊓[ F ] t) ε) ζ)
      where
      ε : [ x ⊓[ F ] t ⊑[ pos F ] y ]
      ε = x ⊓[ F ] t     ⊑⟨ cright F x ϕ                 ⟩
          x ⊓[ F ] v     ⊑⟨ π₀ (q v) (⊑[ pos F ]-refl v) ⟩
          y              ■

      ζ : [ (x ⊓[ F ] t) ⊑[ pos F ] z ]
      ζ = x ⊓[ F ] t     ⊑⟨ cright F x ψ                 ⟩
          x ⊓[ F ] w     ⊑⟨ π₀ (r w) (⊑[ pos F ]-refl w) ⟩
          z              ■
```

## Construction of the Heyting implication

```agda
module Definition (F : Frame 𝓤 𝓥 𝓥) (basis : hasBasis F) where
```

```agda
  open DefnOfHeytingImplication F

  _≤_ : ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F → hProp 𝓥
  x ≤ y = x ⊑[ pos F ] y

  infix 3 _≤_

  _∧_ : ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F
  x ∧ y = x ⊓[ F ] y

  ℬ : 𝓥 ̇
  ℬ = π₀ (π₀ basis)

  β : ℬ → ∣ F ∣F
  β = π₁ (π₀ basis)
```

We define the implication as follows:

```agda
  _==>_ : ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F → ∣ F ∣F
  x ==> y =
    ⋁[ F ] ⁅ β b ∣ (b , _) ∶ Σ[ b ∈ ℬ ] [ (x ∧ β b) ≤ y ] ⁆
```

Of course, the first thing we prove is modus ponens:

```agda
  mp : (x y : ∣ F ∣F) → [ x ⊓[ F ] (x ==> y) ⊑[ pos F ] y ]
  mp x y =
    x ⊓[ F ] (x ==> y)                    ⊑⟨ ≡⇒⊑ (pos F ) (dist F _ _) ⟩
    ⋁[ F ] ⁅ x ⊓[ F ] β b ∣ (b , _) ∶ _ ⁆ ⊑⟨ ⋁[ F ]-least _ _ γ        ⟩
    y                                     ■
    where
    open PosetReasoning (pos F)

    γ : _
    γ z ((_ , q) , eq) = subst (λ - → [ - ⊑[ pos F ] _ ]) eq q

  mp-op : (x y : ∣ F ∣F) → [ (x ==> y) ⊓[ F ] x ⊑[ pos F ] y ]
  mp-op x y = (x ==> y) ⊓[ F ] x ⊑⟨ ≡⇒⊑ (pos F) (comm F (x ==> y) x) ⟩
              x ⊓[ F ] (x ==> y) ⊑⟨ mp x y                           ⟩
              y                  ■
    where
    open PosetReasoning (pos F)
```

We now proceed to prove that this is the Heyting implication:

```agda
  lemma : (x y : ∣ F ∣F) (c : ℬ)
        → [ (x ∧ β c ≤ y) ⇒ (β c ≤ x ==> y) ]
  lemma x y c p = ⋁[ F ]-upper _ (β c) ((c , p) , refl)

  ==>-is-HI : [ isHeytingImplication _==>_ ]
  ==>-is-HI x y z = forward , backward
    where
    open PosetReasoning (pos F)

    forward : [ (z ≤ x ==> y) ⇒ (x ∧ z ≤ y) ]
    forward p = x ⊓[ F ] z         ⊑⟨ cright F _ p ⟩
                x ⊓[ F ] (x ==> y) ⊑⟨ mp x y       ⟩
                y                  ■

    backward : [ ((x ∧ z) ≤ y) ⇒ (z ≤ x ==> y) ]
    backward p = z                       ⊑⟨ ≡⇒⊑ (pos F) ε        ⟩
                 ⋁[ F ] ⁅ β v ∣ v ε VV ⁆ ⊑⟨ ⋁[ F ]-least _ _ nts ⟩
                 x ==> y                 ■
      where
      VV : Fam 𝓥 ℬ
      VV = π₀ (π₁ basis z)

      ε : z ≡ ⋁[ F ] ⁅ β v ∣ v ε VV ⁆
      ε = ⋁-unique F ⁅ β v ∣ v ε VV ⁆ _ (π₀ lub) (π₁ lub)
        where
        lub = π₁ (π₁ (π₁ basis z))

      nts : _
      nts w (i , eq) = w          ⊑⟨ ≡⇒⊑ (pos F) (sym eq)                              ⟩
                       β (VV $ i) ⊑⟨ ⋁[ F ]-upper _ (β (VV $ i)) ((VV $ i , δ) , refl) ⟩
                       x ==> y    ■
        where
        δ : [ x ⊓[ F ] β (VV $ i) ≤ y ]
        δ = x ∧ β (VV $ i)                ⊑⟨ cright F _ (⋁[ F ]-upper _ _ (i , refl)) ⟩
            x ∧ (⋁[ F ] ⁅ β v ∣ v ε VV ⁆) ⊑⟨ cright F _ (≡⇒⊑ (pos F) (sym ε))         ⟩
            x ∧ z                         ⊑⟨ p                                         ⟩
            y                             ■
```
